Emory University is a private research university in metropolitan Atlanta, located in the Druid Hills section of unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, United States. The university was founded as Emory College in 1836 in Oxford, Georgia by the Methodist Episcopal Church and was named in honor of Methodist bishop John Emory. In 1915, the college relocated to metropolitan Atlanta and was rechartered as Emory University.

Emory University has nine academic divisions: Emory College of Arts and Sciences, Oxford College, Goizueta Business School, Laney Graduate School, School of Law, School of Medicine, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Rollins School of Public Health, and the Candler School of Theology. Emory University and the Georgia Institute of Technology jointly administer the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Program with Peking University in Beijing, China. Emory University students come from all 50 U.S. states and over 100 foreign countries.

Emory Healthcare is the the largest healthcare system in the state of Georgia  and is composed of seven major hospitals, including the nationally renowned Emory University Hospital and Emory University Hospital Midtown. The university also operates the Winship Cancer Institute and Yerkes National Primate Research Center. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society are national affiliate institutions located adjacent to campus.

Emory University is 16th among the list of colleges and universities in the United States by endowment, 19th among universities in the world by endowment, and 21st in U.S. News & World Report's 2015 National Universities Rankings. Emory University has a Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education status of RU/VH: "very high research activity". The university is 5th among universities in the United States with licensing revenue per dollars spent on research and the 4th largest contributor in the nation to the discovery of new drugs and vaccines among public-sector research institutions. In 1995 Emory University was elected to the Association of American Universities, an association of the 62 leading research universities in the United States & Canada.